 ACADEMICS — COURSES + PROGRAMS — MASTER COURSE OUTLINES
CISC110 Introduction to Information Systems
Department of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics:
Computer/Information Science

I. Course Number and Title
Courses + Programs





CISC110 Introduction to Information Systems
II. Number of Credits
3 credits
III. Number of Instructional Minutes
3000
IV. Prerequisites
Reading Placement test score Level 3 or READ110 (C or better) or COMP108 (C or better) or permission of the Department of
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
Corequisites
None
V. Other Pertinent Information
Extensive reading and comprehension is required. A series of laboratory assignments and exercises dedicated to developing a
hands-on proficiency with popular software tools and operating systems will be included in this course. A proctored
comprehensive departmental final will be evaluated at 15-20% of the course grade.
VI. Catalog Course Description
This course provides an overview of business information systems. Topics include hardware and software fundamentals, use of
software packages, effective use of networks, Internet, and other communication tools, the design of management information
systems, as well as the ethical use of computers in business and society. Hands-on experience is provided.
VII. Required Course Content and Direction
Course Learning Goals
Students will:
A.
1. identify and utilize information and computer system components and peripherals;
2. demonstrate knowledge of basic system software and application software;
3. identify and apply the steps involved in analyzing Information Technology (IT) solutions;





4. demonstrate ability to use networks, world-wide web, and other communication tools in a variety of settings; and
create and/or modify files appropriately through the use of office productivity tools: word processor, spreadsheet, presentation,
and database.
5.
Planned Sequence of Topics and/or Learning Activities
Course Outline:
B.
1. Hardware
a. Current storage (measurements, types)
b. Peripheral components
c. Processing
d. Security (physical components, locks)
e. Ethics (responsible disposal)
2. Software Applications
a. System software (OS, NOS, utilities, virus)
b. Application software
c. Security
d. Licensing considerations and ethics
e. Appropriate use of resources
3. Networks
a. Concepts and terminology
b. Components
c. Uses of networks
